Audit logs (#11789)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/audit_logs.md

There are two types of events that can occur within an audit log:

1. Request events, which translate all requests made to Datadog’s API into customer records.
2. Product-specific events, such as:
    - Changes within your organization or account. For example, if a user changes a dashboard, you are able to see who made the last change and at what time.
    - User access of information within your environment. For example, for a compliance audit, you can see who accessed or viewed certain information and at what time or if a user receives a policy denied warning.
    - Breaking events. In these cases, you can see what API calls led up to the event.

## Setup

To enable Audit Logs, navigate to your [Organization Settings][2] and select *Audit Logs Settings* under *Security*. Click the **Enable** button.

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/setup.png" alt="Audit Logs setup in Datadog" style="width:100%;">}}

## Configuration

### Event types

> Audit Logs is configurable by event type. Enabled events are specific to actions that take place in Datadog. The following event types are supported for Audit Logs:

Author: ```suggestion
Event types are a collection of audit events. For example, the Authentication event type contains all logs related to authentication and the Dashboards event type contains all the logs related to interacting with the dashboards product. To enable an event type, navigate to the *Audit Logs Settings* section of your [Organization Settings][2] and toggle on event types that are relevant to you.
```

---
title: Audit Logs
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/org_settings/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about organization settings"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">This feature is in public beta. Contact <a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/support/">Datadog support</a> for more information.</div>

## Overview

As an administrator or security team member, you can see who is using Datadog within your organization and the context in which they are using Datadog with [Audit Logs][1]. As an individual, you can see a stream of your own actions, too.

There are two types of events that can occur within an audit log:

1. Request events, which translate all requests made to Datadog’s API into a customer record
2. Product-specific events, such as:
    - What has changed within your organization or account. For example, if a user changes a dashboard, you are able to see who made the last change and at what time.

>     - Who accessed and viewed certain information within your environment, for compliance audits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - User access of information within your environment. For example, for a compliance audit, you can see who accessed or viewed certain information and at what time.
```

>     - User access of information within your environment. For example, for a compliance audit, you can see who accessed or viewed certain information and at what time.

Author: ```suggestion
    - User access of information within your environment. For example, for a compliance audit, you can see who accessed or viewed certain information and at what time or if a user receives a policy denied warning.
```

>     - A breaking event, such as seeing what API calls led up to the event.

Reviewer: this makes it seem like "seeing what api calls led up to the event" is an example of a breaking event

```suggestion
    - Breaking events. In these cases, you can see what API calls led up to the event.
```

>     - An audit trail of information relating to user access. For example, if a user receives a policy denied warning.

Reviewer: is this different from what's mentioned in line 21?

Author: Good catch, I think this was a subsequent add to the former bullet point. Will combine!

>     - An audit trail of information relating to user access. For example, if a user receives a policy denied warning.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Setup

> Audit Logs is self-service enabled. To enable, navigate to your [Organization Settings][2] and select *Audit Logs Settings* under *Security*. Click the **Enable** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Audit Logs, navigate to your [Organization Settings][2] and select *Audit Logs Settings* under *Security*. Click the **Enable** button.
```

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/setup.png" alt="Audit Logs setup in Datadog" style="width:100%;">}}

## Configuration

### Event types

> Audit Logs is configurable by event type. Enabled events are specific to actions that take place in the Datadog application. The following event types are supported for Audit Logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Audit Logs is configurable by event type. Enabled events are specific to actions that take place in Datadog. The following event types are supported for Audit Logs:
```

- Access Management: Manage access, such as roles and users
- Authentication: Successful and failed login attempts
- Dashboard: Additions, deletions, and changes to dashboard resources
- Log Management: Additions, deletions, and changes to log management resources
- Monitor: Additions, deletions, and changes to monitor resources
- Notebooks: Additions, deletions, and changes to notebook resources
- Request: All web requests
- Security Monitoring: Additions, deletions, and changes to security monitoring resources

> {{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/event-types.png" alt="Audit Logs event types setup in Datadog" style="width:70%;">}}

Reviewer 2: I feel like listing these may not be a good idea given they will change pretty frequently over the first year before stabilizing. Also all these details exist on the settings page itself. It may just be preferable to focus on what event types are here. Thoughts?

Author: Agreed, if these are going to change frequently we should remove and put emphasis on what event types are. I don't have a stable understanding as to what we mean when enabling an event type, etc. So any help here is welcome!

Author: @sidph Hey there! Do we have a standard definition for what event types are and what enabling in the UI means? I can add here to give more context and remove the existing content.

Reviewer 2: Yeah so event types are a collection of audit events. So for example there's the "Authentication" event type which contains all logs related to authentication. or "Dashboards" event type which contains all the logs related to interacting with the dashboards product. Users can toggle on/off which ones are relevant to them.

### Archiving

> Archiving is an optional feature for Audit Logs. You can use archiving to write to an S3 bucket and have your SIEM system read events from it. Archiving is a double-write feature that has variable write times, but on average all events are written to the S3 bucket within 15 minutes of generation.

Reviewer 2: It lets you write to three cloud storage systems currently: Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, and Azure Storage

Author: Interesting, will update this. Thanks!

> Archiving is an optional feature for Audit Logs. You can use archiving to write to an S3 bucket and have your SIEM system read events from it. Archiving is a double-write feature that has variable write times, but on average all events are written to the S3 bucket within 15 minutes of generation.

Author: ```suggestion
Archiving is an optional feature for Audit Logs. You can use archiving to write to Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, or Azure Storage and have your SIEM system read events from it. Archiving is a double-write feature that has variable write times, but on average all events are written within 15 minutes of generation.
```

> Archiving is an optional feature for Audit Logs. You can use archiving to write to Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, or Azure Storage and have your SIEM system read events from it. Archiving is a double-write feature that has variable write times, but on average all events are written within 15 minutes of generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Archiving is an optional feature for Audit Logs. You can use archiving to write to Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, or Azure Storage and have your SIEM system read these archived events from your cloud storage provider. Archiving is a double-write feature that has variable write times, but on average all events are written within 15 minutes of generation.
```

Can we explain what we mean by double-write? For instance: `Archiving is a double-write feature (each event is written to both Audit Logs and to cloud storage) that has variable write times, but on average all events are written within 15 minutes of generation.` but like sounding better than that and stuff

Author: +1 here, @sidph would be great to have more context on this.

Reviewer 3: Reading through this one, it is an internal technical detail. Maybe lets just say - 'on average, all audit events are archived within 15 minutes of generation'

To enable archiving for Audit Logs, navigate to your [Organization Settings][2] and select *Audit Logs Settings* under *Security*. Scroll down to Archiving and click the Store logs toggle to enable.

### Retention

> Retaining logs is an optional feature for Audit Logs. To enable, navigate to your [Organization Settings][2] and select *Audit Logs Settings* under *Security*.  Scroll down to Retention and click the Retain logs toggle to enable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retaining logs is an optional feature for Audit Logs. To enable, navigate to your [Organization Settings][2] and select *Audit Logs Settings* under *Security*. Scroll down to Retention and click the Retain logs toggle to enable.
```

> The default retention period for an audit log is 7 days. You can set a retention period between 3 and 90 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default retention period for an audit log is seven days. You can set a retention period between three and 90 days.
```

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/retention.png" alt="Audit Logs Retention setup in Datadog" style="width:80%;">}}

> Note: Audit Logs are priced as retained logs, and there is not a cost for ingestion or archiving. See the [Log Management pricing page][3] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Audit Logs are priced as retained logs, and there is no cost for ingestion or archiving. See the [Log Management pricing page][3] for more information.
```

## Explore Audit Logs

> To explore an audit log, navigate to the [Audit Logs][1] section, also accessible from your [Organizational Settings][2] in the Datadog app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore an audit log, navigate to the [Audit Logs][1] section, also accessible from your [Organizational Settings][2] in Datadog.
```

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/explore-audit-logs.png" alt="Audit Logs in the Organization Settings menu" style="width:50%;">}}

Audit Logs have the same functionality as logs within the Datadog [Logs Explorer][4]:

> - Filter by facets to drill down into audit logs by `Status` (`Error`, `Warn`, `Inf`o) or `Method` (`POST`, `GET`, `DELETE`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Filter by facets to drill down into audit logs by `Status` (`Error`, `Warn`, `Info`) or `Method` (`POST`, `GET`, `DELETE`).
```

- For compliance audits, filter by `event_name` and select `authentication only` to see compliance-related events.
- Drill down into related audit logs by selecting a log and navigating to the event attributes tab. Select a specific attribute to filter by or exclude from your search, such as `http.method`, `usr.email`, `client.ip`, etc.

> 

Reviewer 2: @sidph I wonder if it makes sense to be clear about which fields are not expected to be stable enough to write monitors / scripts on. Particularly the description and the prev/new value facets I'd call out as for human eyes. Thoughts?

Author: +1, definitely would be helpful to make note of any fields that won't be stable for beta.

Reviewer 3: I'd reword this one to - 
- Filter to drill down into audit logs by Event Names (Dashboards, Monitors, Authentication, etc), Authentication Attributes (Actor, API Key ID, User email, etc), `Status` (`Error`, `Warn`, `Info`), `Method` (`POST`, `GET`, `DELETE`), and other facets
- Drill down into related audit logs by selecting a log and navigating to the event attributes tab. Select a specific attribute to filter by or exclude from your search, such as `http.method`, `usr.email`, `client.ip`, etc.

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/attributes.png" alt="Audit Logs in the Organization Settings menu" style="width:50%;">}}

> ## Create a Monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a monitor
```

To create a monitor on a type of audit log or by specific log attributes, see the [Audit Logs Monitor documentation][5].

> ## Create a Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a dashboard
```

> Give more visual context to your audit logs with Dashboards. To create an Audit Logs dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give more visual context to your audit logs with dashboards. To create an Audit Logs dashboard:
```

1. Create a [New Dashboard][6] in Datadog.

> 2. Select your visualization: an Audit Logs source can be queried for [Top Lists][7], [Time Series][8], and [Log Stream][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select your visualization. You can query an Audit Logs source for [top lists][7], [timeseries][8], and [log streams][9].
```

> 3. [Graph your data][10]: Under edit, select Audit Logs as the data source, and create a query. Audit Logs are filtered by count, and can be grouped by the different facets. Select a facet and limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Graph your data][10]: Under edit, select *Audit Logs* as the data source, and create a query. Audit logs are filtered by count and can be grouped by different facets. Select a facet and limit.
```

---
title: Audit Logs
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/account_management/org_settings/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about organization settings"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">This feature is in public beta. Contact <a href="https://www.datadoghq.com/support/">Datadog support</a> for more information.</div>

## Overview

As an administrator or security team member, you can use [Audit Logs][1] to see who is using Datadog within your organization and the context in which they are using Datadog. As an individual, you can see a stream of your own actions, too.

There are two types of events that can occur within an audit log:

1. Request events, which translate all requests made to Datadog’s API into customer records.
2. Product-specific events, such as:

>     - Changes within your organization or account. For example, if a user changes a dashboard, you are able to see who made the last change and at what time.

Reviewer 4: The most common examples we hear on Log Management are:
1. I want to know when someone changed the retention of an index
2. I want to know who modified the processing/pipelines and when.
3. I want to know who modified an exclusion filters.
These are common billing impact and access impact questions that Ali and I come across most often. They will resonate more than the dashboard  and breaking events example

Note: Audit Logs are priced as retained logs, and there is no cost for ingestion or archiving. See the [Log Management pricing page][3] for more information.

## Explore Audit Logs

To explore an audit log, navigate to the [Audit Logs][1] section, also accessible from your [Organizational Settings][2] in Datadog.

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/explore-audit-logs.png" alt="Audit Logs in the Organization Settings menu" style="width:50%;">}}

Audit Logs have the same functionality as logs within the Datadog [Logs Explorer][4]:

- Filter by facets to drill down into audit logs by `Status` (`Error`, `Warn`, `Info`) or `Method` (`POST`, `GET`, `DELETE`).
- For compliance audits, filter by `event_name` and select `authentication only` to see compliance-related events.
- Drill down into related audit logs by selecting a log and navigating to the event attributes tab. Select a specific attribute to filter by or exclude from your search, such as `http.method`, `usr.email`, `client.ip`, etc.

{{< img src="account_management/audit_logs/attributes.png" alt="Audit Logs in the Organization Settings menu" style="width:50%;">}}

## Create a monitor

> To create a monitor on a type of audit log or by specific log attributes, see the [Audit Logs Monitor documentation][5].

Reviewer 3: In case we want to add examples - Set a monitor that triggers when user XYZ logs in, or set a monitor for anytime a dashboard is deleted
